Hi everyone, welcome back. Today we are
going to break down another really
common system design interview question.
This time it's going to be design
Dropbox. Um, this is also referred to as
design Google Drive sometimes. They're
largely the same question. It's a super
popular question. It's asked at all of
the top fangs, really popular at Google
and Amazon shows up a ton at Meta as
well. Um, so by way of introduction,
just quickly, my name is Evan. I'm a
former interviewer and staff engineer at
Meta and I'm the current co-founder of
Hello Interview. And Hello Interview is
a company that helps candidates prepare
for their upcoming interviews at Fang
Companies. And this is largely via mock
interviews with current fang
interviewers.
So between asking this question at Meta
and asking it at hello interview, I've
probably asked it I don't know maybe
around 50 times. Um and I have a really
good understanding of where candidates
do well and where they trip up. And this
is candidates of all levels. Um, so
we're going to walk through this as if
it's a real interview, but of course I'm
going to be periodically teaching,
jumping in with tips, sharing the
perspective from an interviewer.
This question is a little bit on the
easier side. So it's asked most
frequently of mid-level candidates. This
is E4, L4 candidates, but it also shows
up a ton for senior and even staff
candidates. So useful for all levels.
And I'll call out the deltas as I
mentioned um as it pertains to leveling
as we go. Lastly, if videos aren't your
thing, you don't want to sit here and
listen to me for an hour, you can head
over to hello.com where I have a
detailed write up. Sorry, I was on the
wrong page there. I have a detailed
write up of this very question. Um so
you can come over read through this
instead. This will be linked in the
comments below. And then that page that
you just saw there is that you can come
here if you want to suggest whatever you
want us to break down next. And I'll
continue to try to make videos for each
of these that we break down. So come
over here, propose a new system, design
interview question and vote for the one
that you want to see next. Uh we'll
break it down, you know, every two weeks
or so, we'll do a new one. Awesome.
Okay. Well, without further ado, let's
get into it.
All right. Before we dive in, let's take
a moment to talk about the approach to
the problem. This is the road map that
we're going to follow here today and
it's the road map that I suggest that
you follow for any of your system design
interviews for which you're designing a
userfacing product like Dropbox is. So
we're going to start by defining the
requirements. The requirements will
consist of functional requirements which
are the core features of our system as
well as non-functional requirements
which are the qualities of our system.
And then we're going to move on to
defining the core entities that are
persisted and exchanged via the APIs
which leads naturally to us defining
those userfacing APIs before we move on
to our highle design. This is where
we'll draw our boxes and arrows in order
to sketch out a highle design whose
primary goal is to satisfy those core
functional requirements, those core
features of the system. So at this point
it should be relatively simple. And then
we're going to move on to our last step
which we call deep dives. And this is
where we go deeper in order to expand on
our highle design and make sure that the
system is able to scale fault tolerant
all of those things which we'll see when
we define our non-functional
requirements.
So first up is those functional
Again these are the core features of the
system. So what is the product supposed
to do? You want to take this moment to
identify those top three features. Um,
now if it's a system that you know well,
this should be pretty easy. If it's a
system you don't know well, then this is
the time where you would ask the
interviewer some questions in order to
better understand what the requirements
of the system may be. Now, in our case
for something like Dropbox, they're
pretty straightforward. We know that we
need to be able to upload a file from
remote storage, for example, or to
remote storage. Also download a file
this case from remote storage. And then
we want to be able to automatically sync
files
sync files across devices. So this is
the case where if anyone's used this
feature in Dropbox, you set up a local
folder on your local machine in your
local desktop um and then anytime a file
is uploaded to the remote storage, it's
automatically synced with your uh local
file system. Likewise, if you were to
drag and drop a new file into your local
folder, then it should be automatically
uploaded to your remote storage and then
synced with all of the other connected
local devices. Um, so hopefully that
makes some sense. We'll talk about, of
course, how to implement this. And then
one thing worth calling out here is that
this system is not going to require us
to design or roll our own blob storage.
Um, so that's actually a different
system design question that's sometimes
asked, design S3, um, or something
similar. So we're going to just say that
that's out of scope. So out of scope is,
you know, roll own blob
storage. Cool. And then next up, we have
those non-functional requirements. So
the non-functional requirements are the
qualities of the system. So these are
the things that you're you're used to
reading in your books of low latency, uh
fault tolerant, durability, we talk
about CAP theorem here, all of those
things. Um but most candidates overlook
this. They breeze through it. They write
some generic words and it's entirely
uninformative. And so for senior and
staff and up candidates in particular,
the non-functional requirements are so
important because these are what's going
to inform or lead your deep dives later
on. And your depth is necessary for you
being able to be leveled at those higher
levels senior plus. So for example here,
um the first thing that we can talk
about as we usually will is cap theorem.
Do we prioritize consistency or
availability in the context of CAP
theorem? Of course, partition tolerance
for the scale system we're dealing with
is a must. So in this case, we're going
to prioritize availability over
consistency. So availability
is more important than consistency in
this case. But importantly, we're going
to put that in the context of this
system. So what does that mean here? It
means that it's okay if we upload a file
or we change a file somewhere else in
the world, say Germany, and somebody in
America goes to read that file shortly
afterwards and they still see the old
version of the file. That's okay. That's
totally fine within our system and we're
willing to take that compromise such
that everybody can still download a file
when they request download view whatever
it may be when they request uh to
download or view that file respectively.
So in our case availability is much more
important than consistency. Uh some
other things that we want to consider in
our non-functional requirements is we
want to have low latency
uh uploads and downloads respectively.
Right? So in this case it's not just low
latency that's the buzzword. It's what
in the context of the system uploads and
downloads. And then we'd want to
quantify it. So how much time? Now in
this case we don't know because files
vary. So, I'm kind of gonna take a cop
out and just say as low as possible.
Um, and then the next thing that we want
to consider here is that we want to be
able to support large files. And this is
something I can quantify. I want to say
as large as 50 gigabytes. This is
actually exactly what Dropbox supports.
Um, and then as part of that, we should
have resumable uploads. So, this is the
case that if a user tries to upload a 50
GB file, that can take some time. if
their system or they lose their
internet, whatever it may be, halfway
through that download, we don't want to
make them start over. That would suck.
We want to allow them to pick right back
up where they left off. Uh, and then
another one that we're going to add in
here is that high data integrity is
really important. Um, so this basically
means our sync accuracy is high. So yes,
eventual consistency is fine. It can
take a couple seconds, but by the time
things have stabilized into a consistent
manner, the integrity of our data should
be high. Meaning, what's in one folder
should also be in remote storage should
also be in another folder. Hopefully,
that makes sense. So, these are the ones
that I identify as particularly
important. These are what are going to
lead our deep dives. We may come back
and add to these as we're going. And
this is normal to do in an interview. As
you're going, you might think of new
ones, come back, keep it updated. that
would be great.
Now, just quickly before we move on to
the core entities and the API, I want to
call out that you'll notice I didn't do
back of the envelope estimations yet,
and I actually don't plan to up front
here. And this is generally my
suggestion. It's good to get an
understanding of the scale of the system
up front. In this case, we're talking
about Dropbox scale, talking about
hundreds of millions of daily active
users. And as it pertains to storage,
we're going to use some nearly
infinitely scalable um technologies like
S3 or or other cloud hosted blob storage
technologies. So it doesn't matter too
much there. Now estimations are
important. I don't want to um kind of
belittle them and you should use them
when you're actually within your highle
design. So you should do a highle
estimation when the result of your
calculations is going to have a direct
impact on your design. That's the
general guidance that I give. And
typically it's hard to know that upfront
and candidates here will just do some
daily active users and some total
storage and some bandwidth estimations
and then go, "Wow, that's a ton." And
then keep moving on with their day. Um,
and that's a waste of time. It didn't
inform the design. Uh, and I didn't
learn anything about the candidate other
than they can maybe do multiplication or
division. So that's my suggestion. As
always, overcommunicate with your
interviewer. If you're going to take
that approach, tell them that's the
approach that you're going to take. I uh
kind of highly expect that they they
won't disagree with you. Um, but it's
worth communicating that. Anyway, let's
move on now to our core entities and
API. So core entities here, I know other
people will refer to this as data model
or data schema. The reason that I say
core entities and I choose this word
intentionally is because oftent times at
this point in the design, you know,
we're only five minutes in. I don't know
all the columns. I don't know my full
schema. I'm still trying to figure all
of that out. But what I can take a
moment to do is just sit down and really
think about what core entities or
objects are persisted and exchanged um
within my system. And so in our case,
the main one is that we know there's a
file and this is like the the raw bytes
of the file. We're going to store those
in S3 or some other blob storage. And
then importantly, we also know that
there's file metadata. So this file
metadata is going to have things like
the file name, the ID, mime type, size,
whatever else, right? Uh and then
lastly, and maybe most least
importantly, uh in some cases, maybe I
recommend you don't even put this
because it's more of a distraction than
anything else, but of course there are
user objects within our system. So if
you're feeling comfortable at this point
to outline all the columns, and in the
case of Dropbox, it's pretty simple. the
only ones that we would have would be
file metadata having those that I just
talked about. You can go ahead and just
do it in line. Now I opt not to um and I
end up documenting the full fields or
columns directly next to my database
while we're doing the highle design um
so that it's easy for me to keep it up
to date and you guys will see that a
little bit later on. But those are the
main core entities really
straightforward. Now as we move on to
the API you'll see everything is growing
on each other. So, we're going to use
those core entities as the kind of
inputs and outputs of our API. And we're
going to make sure that we have an API
endpoint or a handful of API endpoints
that satisfy each of our functional
requirements. That's the goal here. Do
we have a userfacing API that can
satisfy each of those functional
requirements? So, let me make sure that
they're in view. So, the first one that
we're going to have is we need to be
able to upload a file. So, this is going
to be a post files. Um, and maybe the
body here is going to be the file and
the file metadata. So, you can kind of
see this nice abstraction where I might
not know all of what's in the file
metadata yet, but I know that it's going
to need to be passed in here. And what
does this return? I don't know, a 200.
Um, and then what else? We need to be
able to download. So, we're going to
have get files. And this is going to
take in a file ID as a path parameter.
And what's it going to return? It's
going to return the file and the file
metadata associated with that file.
Cool. So, super easy, right? Let's keep
let's keep moving here. The next one
that we have is that we need to be able
to automatically sync files across
devices. Now, that's going to require
calling our upload and download
endpoints respectively. But we probably
also need to know if something changed.
Like you can imagine that in these local
folders or at least our local clients,
they're going to be calling and asking,
"Hey, what's changed?" And once they get
a list of what's changed, then they'll
be able to upload or download
respectively. Um, so I'm going to call
this get changes. Um, it's going to take
in some time stamp. This is going to be
uh, you know, the time that we want
changes from. And what's it going to
return? Well, this is probably going to
return, and this might change as we
design, but I'm going to say like it's a
list of file IDs. Like these are the
ones that have changed. this is what
need to be synced. And so we can take
those file IDs and then call our
download for each of those file IDs uh
in order to to update them locally.
So a couple things here to call out.
One, there's shorthand going on. This is
great. Uh a lot of candidates spend too
much time in the API. By being able to
reference your core entities, you can
move quicker. I think that's important.
Um these make sure that they satisfy our
three functional requirements. In this
case, it was a one to one mapping. It's
not always the case, but it was
convenient here. Um, but some astute
viewers are going to be pointing out
these API endpoints are kind of wrong.
Um, and that's actually true. The the
API endpoints in order to upload a file,
for example, is not going to be a single
post files upload like this. But at this
point in the interview, most candidates
from my experience and how many times
I've asked this don't know that. And
that's okay. So we're going to show how
we'll need to come back here and update
these later on. As we go through our
high level design and we go through our
deep dives, we'll find out that these
API endpoints actually need to be a bit
more complex there. There needs to be a
bit more going on. But this is our first
guess. And so we're going to run with
this first guess and take this into our
highle design. And then we'll come back
and we'll amend them as needed. Um, the
last thing that I'll say, which I I've
said in the first two videos as well, is
I'm careful to not put user explicitly
here in the body. Of course, we'll want
a user ID on upload, but I usually just
mention verbally to an interviewer that
the user ID is going to be present in
the request via the header, either via a
session token or a JWT. So, that's where
we're going to get the user information.
Um, it's minor. Most interviewers
probably won't care, some will, but of
course, this is a security concern. It
means that anybody could falsify a
request here and upload or download a
file on behalf of another user. So,
something minor there. All right, let's
move on to the high level design.
All right, now it's time for the fun
stuff. So, let's start sketching out our
highle design. And as a reminder, the
goal of our highle design is to satisfy
these three core functional
requirements. Now, conveniently, so too
did our APIs. Our APIs satisfied those
core functional requirements. So,
actually the natural thing to do here is
just go one by one through our APIs. So,
being clear about what the user input is
and then making sure that our system can
satisfy the requirement and return the
expected user output. So, let's go ahead
and do that. I'm going to draw the
design over here to the right.
I'm going to start with a simple Oh,
what is going on here? Uh I don't want
any fill.
Okay. Uh I'm going to start with a
simple client box. I'm going to
introduce a this is going to be the load
balancer and the API gateway. Uh this
could be AWS managed API gateway. But
this is going to be responsible for
handling some of that middleware like
authentication,
rate limiting, SSL termination
uh and then importantly routing. So in a
microservices architecture, this guy is
going to be able to take those API
endpoints and route them to the correct
service. So we'll collect our client to
our API gateway. And now we're focus
strictly on this upload files API here.
So we're going to introduce some file
service I'm going to call it. And when a
user goes to upload a file, let's say
this is our post. I'm actually going to
do this in shorthand to make it clearer
maybe. I'm going to call this upload.
So when a user goes upload a file, it's
going to hit our file service. And then
at this point, we're going to have two
things. We're going to have our file and
we're going to have our file metadata.
Metadata. All right. And so we need to
store both of those. Now, we wouldn't
store both of those in the same storage
technology in the same database. And the
reason for that is they're very
different in nature. So oftent times
when it comes to raw files or the raw
bytes of the file, not oftent times,
this is almost every single time we want
to store those in blob storage. Blob
storage is optimized for being able to
store cheaply these large blobs of
bytes, these large blobs of data. So in
this case, we're going to use S3. Um, so
we're going to call it blob storage. And
this could be any that you want. If you
want to use GCP, that's fine, too. I'm
going to use S3 in this case. So the
first thing that we're going to do is
we're going to uh upload file.
And then once the upload is complete,
this is going to return with the link to
where we can access that file in S3. So
then importantly, we're going to have
this file metadata DB.
And after the upload is complete, we're
going to write to our file metadata. So
write metadata.
And that metadata is going to look
something like this. So, we have file
metadata. We're going to have a file ID.
We're going to have a file name. We're
going to have that mime type. This is
like uh the type of the file. Is it a
PDF? Is it an image? Etc. We'll probably
have the size in bytes. Um, you know, of
course, we'll we'll have the the owner
ID. This will be a foreign key to our
user table. Um, potentially shared,
though we specified that it wasn't in
the scope of our requirements. Um, and
then importantly, this is where we'll
have that S3 link. This is a link back
to where the file is actually stored in
blob storage. And then I'm going to do
this as shorthand. Of course, we'll
probably have some other less important
metadata, but this is the main content
uh that we'll want to store. Now, as I
mentioned earlier, I'm putting this
directly beside my database because as
we complete the rest of our API
endpoints, we may find that there's
other stuff needed here. This makes it
nice and handy. we can just kind of
update it uh in line which will be
great. And so I'm also going to write
here storing the raw bytes of the files.
So storing the actual files themselves.
Great. Um so client uploads go to the
file service upload the file itself to
blob storage save the metadata and then
return with a 200 that the upload was
successful or of course any other error
code um if there was a failure. So
that's the first one. Pretty
straightforward. Now the next one is is
equally as straightforward. This is get
file given a file ID and this is going
to go in the same path. So I'm now going
to have that git file and it takes in a
file ID and it's going to hit our file
service. It's going to use that file ID
to look up the relevant metadata and
then that's going to give it an S S3
link. So we'll go get the actual file
from S3 and then we can return it to the
user. And so what would actually happen
here in practice is that we're going to
get this file metadata. we'll return
that metadata directly and then we can
download from S3. So maybe we'll go like
this. We're not going to download to our
file service once and then download
again to our client. Um so in this case
it's download directly from S3 using
that S3 link that was returned via the
metadata. So there's other optimizations
that we can make here and we'll actually
need to make to this upload download
path and we'll talk about that in our
deep dive but this is the the simple
version here. So at this point we can
upload files granted small files but we
can upload files and we can download
files in in the case of download will
download them directly from S3. So great
super straightforward there. Now let's
focus on our last and most interesting
functional requirement, the one to
automatically sync files across devices.
So the first thing that I want to note
here is that we oftent times just put
this client box nice and small and
abstract out the client for these system
design interviews. That's appropriate
most of the time, but for some systems,
this one being one, another being those
that require streaming and adaptive bit
rates like uh Spotify, Netflix, YouTube,
etc., there's actually logic on the
client which is really important and we
want to reflect that. So let me let me
demonstrate that um by making this
client box a lot bigger so we can put
some things in it and make it
meaningful. So this is our client and
the first thing that I want to make sure
that I uh the first thing that I want to
make sure that I put in it is we're
going to have our local file or our
local folder I'll call it. So this is
the folder that we're syncing, right? So
that's the first thing that's here. And
then the other thing that's going to be
on here importantly is that we're going
to require that users download some
client application either on their Mac
or on their iPhone or Windows machine or
or whatever it may be. Right? So we have
some client app and this client app is
going to be responsible for syncing
remote and the local f the local folder
here. Right? Okay. That makes a good
amount of sense. So let's break this
down. What does it take to do this um
file syncing? uh in the most simple way.
So there's two types of syncing
directions maybe we can call them. The
first is that remote changed and in the
case where remote changed um we want to
make sure that we can pull in those
changes. So we can pull uh for changes
periodically maybe and then we want to
download the new file, download new file
and replace the old potentially. Excuse
the kind of misspellings. I'm just going
to run with it anyway.
And then the second thing that we want
to do is what happens if something
happens in the other direction. So if
local changed. So if local changed then
we need to upload the changed files to
remote. Right? So pretty
straightforward. Those are the two
things that we need to be able to handle
here. And so let's talk about how we
would do it um simply. So let's start
with maybe uh remote changed. So in the
case that remote changed, let's do this.
I'm going to add a new server. This is
going to be our sync service. And so
some strong arguments as to whether or
not we're over modularizing here by
separating these two. I'm going to just
kind of look past that for now,
especially since this service will grow
in complexity during our deep dives. But
we're going to have that get changes API
here. And so that API is going to look
for anything that has changed. Maybe
it's going to directly ask the file
service um to query its file metadata
and tell us the ids of anything that
changed. Importantly, that means that we
need some additional data here, right?
We probably want the
creation timestamp.
Uh but then we also want the update time
stamp,
right? And so this way we can just query
our file metadata, see which files have
been updated. We'll get those to our
sync service. Our sync service is going
to respond with the ids that have been
updated. And then our client app is
going to download. So it's going to ask
for the file metadata from each of those
ids. Get that metadata and then download
directly from S3. Right? So you might
have just noticed we had an additional
round trip. We had the get changes. Then
we did the download. So potentially you
want your sync changes to not just
return the ID here, but to return the
full metadata. So you can go and
download directly without that
additional call. um that seems
reasonable to me. This will all still
evolve in our in our deep dive. But if I
just noticed that in an interview, I
would say that seems reasonable and I
would come here and say that we return
the full metadata. So our sync service
gets the metadata of any file that
changes and then our client app will
download them, put them into our local
folder, uh replacing any ones that
already existed there. Okay, easy. Um
the next one, local changed. So in the
case that local changed, we want to
upload those changed files to remote,
right? So if local changed, we're going
to notice that. And the big question is
how do we notice that? And the answer is
that natively each of these operating
systems provide an API in order to watch
uh changes to a folder or directory. So
actually let me write those down. In the
case of uh Windows, they offer something
that's called file system watcher. So
you can look this up on your own time.
This is just an API that's exposed via
the operating system which is constantly
watching any changes to a local
directory and then based on changes to
those directory you can of course do
something. Um and then in the case of
Mac what is it in the case of MacOSS API
it is called FS events.
So there's an object exposed called FS
events which has itself a handful of
endpoints um such as watching from a
local folder. So in our client app,
we'll have some code depending on which
client and operating system the client's
downloaded on in order to see changes.
When a change occurs, we will then
upload them via our normal upload path.
And we'll just need to make sure that we
make any updates here. So maybe we
reupload to S3, change the S3 link, and
then update the uh the update time,
right? That's a real simple simple way
to handle this.
Now, one question you may be asking is
how do we know, for example, that when
remote changed and we pull for changes,
how do we know that we don't already
have that file in our local in our local
folder in our local file system? That's
a great question. And the truth is that
our client app is actually going to have
to have something else here. And so
maybe I'm actually going to represent
this visually. U we are going to need to
have some
I'm going to call this a local DB. So,
we're going to have some local database
which has the metadata including the ids
and some of the additional information
um about each of the files that are in
the local file system. So, when a new
file is updated, we can look in that
local DB in order to determine whether
or not we've already downloaded uh that
file ID. And if we have downloaded that
file ID, then we'll have kind of a
reference from that file ID to wherever
it is in our local folder. So there's
going to be some important stuff that
we'll talk here about what's called
fingerprinting in order to hash and
identify a file as well. I'm going to
save that a bit for the deep dives, but
this is kind of the simple way that we
would do that. We had some additional
local database. We're able to look here
and cross reference the metadata that's
stored here with any of the metadata
that's stored in remote. And we'll want
to make sure that those two things
remain as consistent as possible.
All right, so our highle design is in
place. And as a reminder, if we look
back at our road map, the highle design
was simple, but did a good job to make
sure that it met all of our functional
requirements. Now, our last step in the
process is to lead some deep dives. And
this deep dives goal is to make sure
that we satisfy our non-functional
requirements. And so, how deep you go
here and how proactive you are in
leading is largely a function of your
seniority. For example, if you were a
mid-level candidate, then what you have
here is is pretty good. This is close to
getting hired, to be honest. Um, but the
interviewer may jump in now and ask you
some questions, lead you in the right
direction, some follow-up questions, and
and hope that you have competent
answers, too. Now, if you're a senior
engineer or of course a staff engineer,
then you'd want to continue driving the
conversation at this point. You'd want
to come over here to your non-functional
requirements, as we'll do here in a
second, go one by one through them and
make sure that you can enhance your
design in order to uh ensure that
they're satisfied and kind of go deep in
each of the respective areas. So for
senior candidates, you want to go deep
in maybe one to two places. Uh for staff
candidates, you want to go deep in two
to three places. Um and of course, the
level of depth should be increased. You
should have more hands-on experience the
more senior you are. And as a result,
you should be able to to go deeper on
each of these components. So let's do
this. Now, I'm going to go deep in maybe
more areas than is necessary in an
actual interview, but this is
illustrative. Um it's more so to teach
as opposed to adhering to exactly what
you would do in a session.
So, let's come over here. I'm actually
going to go out of order. I'm going to
start with supporting large files as
large as 50 gigabytes and resumable
uploads. And you'll see why I do this in
a second. It actually will have
consequences on some of our other
non-functional requirements.
So, let's come over back to our design
and talk about why this wouldn't work.
And actually, I would point this out to
a mid-level candidate as an interviewer.
I would say, "This design's great u but
it actually won't work for large files.
This design would only work for files as
large as 5 to 10 megabytes. And there's
a reason for that. So there's two issues
that we currently have when we want to
upload large files. Let me maybe start
tracking here. So upload large files
and I'm going to say 50 GB.
So the very first issue that we have is
that this upload path is actually
redundant. So we upload the file once to
the file service and then we upload it a
second time to blob storage. This is a
waste of bandwidth. It's a waste of CPU
resources here on the server. So it's
entirely redundant and unnecessary. It's
kind of issue one. And then issue two is
that we couldn't even upload this
through this path if we wanted to. And
the reason for that is that request
bodies have a limit. This limit is
oftentimes set by browsers. It's set by
servers. it's set by the API gateways
respectively such that what can be in
that post body in our case we're sending
over the bytes of the file in that post
body can only be so large. So if we were
using for example AWS managed API
gateway here it has a limit of 10
megabytes in that post body. So a 50
gigabyte file is obviously far larger
than that. We couldn't get through here
anyway. We would get an error. So those
are the two issues. Let me start with
the first one because it's the more
simple to address and then we'll talk
about how we can handle uh the
bottleneck introduced here. So the first
thing when it comes to making sure that
we don't have this redundant upload path
and this waste of bandwidth, we can
actually upload directly to S3 just like
we downloaded directly from S3. But the
issue that we run into is well how do we
know how to how to upload directly to
S3? We don't want to make it so that
everyone can upload to S3. That would be
dangerous. And so what we do is when we
want to upload a file, we send just the
metadata, not the bytes of the file this
time, just the metadata to our file
service, which writes that metadata to
our file metadata DB. It probably
updates a field like status to say
started or something like this. This is
nice to have my schema right next to my
database for this reason. You see how we
kind of continue to evolve it as we as
we follow walk through the flows. but
we're going to update the metadata and
then instead of uploading the file to
blob storage, we're going to actually
request a pre-signed URL. And so what
pre-signed URLs are are they're
basically us asking blob storage with
our authentication that we had from the
file service. We're an authenticated
user, we say to blob storage, I want to
upload a file of this mime type like PDF
or whatever else. It's of this size. And
then blob storage gives us a secure
link. And that secure link basically has
some additional metadata at the end of
the URL which is signed by S3 which
ensures that the file that can be
uploaded is only of that mime type only
of that size and it's only uh available
for a limited period of time. You can
basically only upload to this link for a
short window. Actually don't remember
what S3's default is there but let's say
10 15 30 minutes or so. So, we get that
pre-signed URL and we return it back to
our client. And then our client can
actually then just directly upload
directly to S3 with that pre-signed URL.
So, basically in that um REST call to
upload the file, we're not going to do
it um excuse me, in that REST call to
it to our own API endpoint to hit our
own servers. We're going to post it
directly to that pre-signed URL so we
can upload directly to S3. So fantastic.
That solves the first issue. No problem.
Um, but we still have the issue of if
this is a really large file, then one,
this is going to take a huge amount of
time, right? So we could do a little bit
of math there and we would find that,
you know, to upload a 50 gigabyte file
at an average internet speed of 100
megabits per second, this is going to
take us 1 hour and 12 minutes. I did
that math, you know, just before filming
this so that you guys wouldn't have to
see us do it in line, but that's good
math to do at this time, right? So, this
would take an hour and 12 minutes.
That's a long time. And so, from a user
experience perspective, it would suck if
I got halfway through this upload and
then I lost my internet connection or
something failed or anything else and I
had to all of a sudden completely
restart. That would be a bummer. So, the
way that we handle this is we use
something called chunking. Chunking is
what's really important here. So what we
do is we can chunk files on the client.
So chunk files on the client to
something like f five megabyte chunks.
These are smaller chunks. And so if we
have a 50 gigabyte file here, we'll
create all of these five megabyte
chunks. And we'll update those chunks or
upload those chunks directly to S3 one
after another either serially or in
parallel depending on what our bandwidth
is. So we can upload each of these
chunks. And importantly, as we're
uploading those chunks, we also need to
keep track of the status of what chunks
have been uploaded. And this is so that
of course, if we fail, we can compare
the chunks that have been uploaded to
the chunks that we have in the file and
only upload the ones that are missing.
And so, in order to do that, we would
need to update our file metadata over
here to store those chunks. Now, we
didn't talk about what database this was
yet. And to be honest, it it could be
either or any of the common SQL or NoSQL
databases. Actually, slight aside, the
debate in an interview between whether
you use SQL or NoSQL is is kind of
outdated at this point. These
technologies have come a long way.
They've converged and such that when
well configured, they can largely do the
same things. So, I'm going to forgo that
argument because I think it's
uninteresting. It could be NoSQL, it
could be SQL. If it was a SQL database
like Postgress or something, then we
would use normalization and we would
have another chunks table over here that
has our chunk information with some
foreign key back to the metadata. I'm
actually going to opt for going with
Dynamo DB NoSQL database. Um, and I'm
just going to add it directly on this
object then. So, I'm going to have a
chunks and it's going to be a list of
chunks. And so, what chunks are going to
have then each specific chunk item in
this list is going to have an ID. It's
going to have maybe the status and it's
going to have, you know, its own S3
link, right? So, we have a list of all
of our chunks. So, step one, we took our
50 GB file, we chunked it, we sent that
with our metadata, and we said, "Here
are all of my chunks." And maybe all of
their status at this point is not
started. Then, we start uploading each
of those chunks either in serial or in
parallel to S3. As they get uploaded, we
can upate up update the status to
success, uploaded, and update the S3
link.
Now, when we want to resume an upload
because it stopped halfway through or
any other reason, we simply need to
request our file metadata, get our file
metadata, and compare the chunks from
the file on the client to the chunks in
our file metadata and only upload the
ones that are missing.
Now, importantly, you might be pointing
out that, well, how do we know how do we
compare the chunks here to the chunks
here? We need some unique way of saying
that this chunk that I have here is the
same as a chunk that you've already
uploaded. And so, we could do silly
things like maintaining indexes.
Um, this is not great. It's errorprone.
And instead, we need a unique way to be
able to identify a chunk and to track
that chunk's identification.
And what we end up using here is
something called fingerprinting.
Something called fingerprinting. So we
can fingerprint each chunk. And what
fingerprinting is is it's just a hash of
the bytes of the file or the bytes of
the chunk in this case. So step one,
chunk the files. Step two, calculate
their fingerprint by running a hash over
their bytes. This will give you a unique
ID. And then this fingerprint is
actually what we're going to store here.
Our ID is the fingerprint.
And so now when we want to uh check to
see if any files have been uploaded,
we're just going to compare the
fingerprint of the chunk that we have
here stored in our server in our
database to the fingerprint that we've
calculated on the client. And if there
are any fingerprints, any chunks on the
client that have not successfully been
uploaded as determined by our file
metadata, then we'll reupload them,
right? Um, okay. Hopefully hopefully
that makes sense. Just to recap, what
we're going to do here when we want to
upload a file is we're first going to
store our our file metadata and all of
the chunk data with their fingerprints
as
um you know started or not uploaded.
We're going to request a pre-signed URL
from blob storage. We're then going to
upload directly to that pre-signed URL.
Now, there's one last thing before we
move on to another deep dive actually um
that I handwaved and and that watchers
might have noticed and that's when I'm
uploading chunks to S3, how do I know to
how to update the status? How do I get
that information back to my database
here in order to update the status of
that chunk? And the reason that this is
an issue is because there's a couple
ways to do it, but the obvious way is
insecure. So, the first thing that we
would do is we would upload a chunk.
We'd get a response from S3 saying that
chunk's uploaded. Then we would rely on
our client to make an additional request
to our server, a patch, put, whatever it
would be in order to update our file
metadata to say complete. Now the issue
with this approach is that we are
directly relying or trusting our client
and our client could lie to us, right?
So this could be some malicious user for
some reason and they could tell us
incorrect information that a chunk
either was or was not uploaded
successfully and then our status would
be inconsistent with what actually
happened in S3. Now there's a strong
argument here that would say who cares
hackers could only mess up their own
file upload so let them do it. But of
course having inconsistency between our
metadata and S3 isn't ideal. It's going
to cause headaches for the engineering
team to debug and etc. So instead of
directly trusting the client, we can use
a pattern called trust but verify. And
so when a chunk is uploaded to S3, we
respond saying success or S3 responds
saying success. The client then says
this chunk was just successfully
uploaded to the file metadata service.
The file metadata service would then
check with blob storage. Hey, I just
want to confirm the client told me this
chunk was uploaded. Was it? S3 will
respond and then we can update the
status in our file metadata. So that
pattern is called trust but verify. And
that's really useful here. The other
option which could be considered is that
most blob storage
um you know cloud providers enable some
version of change data capture. So
basically you can have some notification
that's triggered off of blob storage
when something happens. S3 uses
something called S3 notifications.
So you could have something here that
would be S3 notifications. Then anytime
a new chunk is uploaded here then it
would notify our file service. Hey, a
new chunk was uploaded and then our file
service can update our metadata. This
way we're not trusting or relying on the
client at all. And so this is fine. This
is good. This would work. Maybe it's
added complexity. There are pros and
cons, trade-offs to way. This is the
interesting stuff to get into in an
interview. It is worth noting that this
chunking and uploading is actually
really popular. So like S3 for example
just exposes an API called multi-art
upload which does this stuff that we're
talking about. it handles the chunking
on the client, the uploading, the
fingerprinting, the comparing of
fingerprinting to validate, etc. And if
you were to use S3 multiart upload, then
you would run into a situation where
actually on each specific chunk of the
multiart upload, blob storage doesn't
support an S3 notification. So nuance
there. I don't want to go into more
detail, but I know some watchers might
call that out. This is an option. If you
didn't use multiart upload, you'd
probably want to use multipart upload.
So you wouldn't use this. All in all,
the trust but verify approach is the
approach that I would probably go for in
an interview, but both options are
great.
Okay, for our next deep dive, let's go
ahead and talk about low latency upload
and download as low as possible. We've
actually done a lot of the hard work
here already. This one should be pretty
quick. So, chunking actually helped a
lot here. um beyond you being useful for
the resumable upload stuff that we just
did, uh it also helps us speed up this u
upload process in particular. So while
bandwidth is fixed, meaning that the the
pipe is only so big, um chunking helps
us make the most of that available
bandwidth. So by sending multiple chunks
in parallel in particular, we're able to
use like adaptive chunk sizes uh based
on the network condition and we can
maximize the uh amount of bandwidth that
we use. Basically use all of the
bandwidth that's available to us. So
that helped us speed up upload already a
bit. There's a couple other things we
can talk about a CDN and that's a common
thing that candidates like to do is they
like to talk about adding a CDN here.
Why does that keep happening? um they
like to talk about adding a CDN here and
CDNs are great. They definitely bring
the the content closer to the um to the
users, speed up the download process in
that way, but top candidates bring up a
really nice point when they talk about
the CDN here where they weigh whether or
not it's necessary. So in our case,
there's a strong argument that it's not.
And the justification here would be that
users are mostly only downloading their
own files. And so by downloading their
own files, they're likely located close
to the data warehouse or the servers.
You can imagine that we have this exact
thing that you're seeing here replicated
all over the world, right? We have maybe
five data centers or something. And so
the benefit of the CDN is that even if
your data is in one data center, one of
the benefits of a CDN, um but you are
out in Germany, you'll be able to
download that content from the CDN in
Germany and it'll be super quick. Now,
we probably don't have that usage
pattern here. Um, so it's it's much less
relevant. It would only apply if a user
is really traveling or if a given file
is super super popular. So if we had a
ton of sharing and maybe for some reason
the Declaration of Independence was in
our Dropbox and people all over the
world were viewing it or whatever, then
the CDN would be great. Um, it certainly
would speed things up. You could get
closer to the user a bit, um, even
considering what I just said. But it's
expensive. CDN are pretty expensive to
manage. So pros and cons here. There's
no right or wrong answer. I'm going to
opt for maybe not including a CDN just
because of that reason, but it's a good
conversation to have. Now, another thing
that we can do in order to speed up the
upload and download process respectively
is we can transfer fewer bytes. How can
we transfer fewer bytes over the
network? We can use something called
compression, right? So, compression
takes a file, compresses it, runs an
algorithm on it. This is like gzip
you've ever used on your computer. I'm
sure you have. It compresses it into
smaller into something smaller into
fewer bytes. And by sending fewer bytes
over the network, of course, uploads and
downloads are going to be quicker. Now,
we don't want to just arbitrarily
compress things though. There's a
downside to that. We have to decompress
them, which makes things slower on the
other side. So, there are some file
types that compress a lot like uh text
files known to compress really well.
DOCX files maybe things like this. But
there are other file types like media
types um like JPEGs, PNGs,
MP4s, etc. These are already naturally
pretty well compressed. So running a
compression algorithm on them is only
going to gain you a couple percent
decrease in the size of the file which
isn't worth it considering that you know
we have the added time that's going to
come from the compression and the
decompression. So you can end up doing
some kind of intelligent compression
logic here on the client again based on
the file type based on the network
conditions. Should I compress or should
I not compress? Um and then you know
maybe we add to our file metadata then
compression algo. If we did compress, we
would need to specify what that
compression algorithm was so that we
could decompress respectively.
Okay. Um, I think that's just about all
there is to speeding uploads and
downloads. Relatively straightforward
there. The chunking helped a lot. Of
course, the CDN is a good conversation
to have. And then potentially using
compression algorithms, but they don't
make sense in every case. Certainly not
for every file type.
Okay, let's go into our last deep dive
now and that's going to be this high
data integrity for sync accuracy. Maybe
more generally, let's just talk about
all the ways that we can improve um this
sync between our local folder, our local
file system and our remote uh repository
or remote file system. So, when it comes
to uh syncing, there's two things that
are that are important to us. We talked
about the remote change, we talked about
the local change. Now, let's talk about
two potential optimizations. So deep
dive on sync. The two things that we
care about is the first one is how can
we make sync fast. So we want this thing
to be as fast as possible. Uh this is
within reason of course. But what this
means is that when something changes on
remote, we want it to be reflected on
our local folder kind of as soon as
possible. Again within reason. So that's
the first one. And then the second one
is that we want sync to be consistent.
And so what this means is that whatever
is in our local folder should be what's
in remote. Whatever's in remote should
be what's in our local folder. So we're
going to talk about these two things and
some optimizations that we can do for
both respectively.
Let's start with talking about how we
make sync fast. And so the first thing
is how can we know when there's changes.
We had talked about periodically polling
for changes. And to be honest, I think
this is still the best approach. So this
means that the client here can just pull
the database to know when something has
changed. And we can play with the
frequency and the intervals. So, if they
have their client app open, if there's
been a lot of changes recently, if
they're playing around in that folder,
maybe we increase or excuse me, decrease
um the delta between our polls. So,
increase the frequency of our polls, how
often we're checking to see if there
were changes. Um that can be kind of
like adapt adaptive polling. The other
option that candidates oftentimes bring
up is either websockets or sometimes
even long polling. These are options,
but they're they're totally overkill,
right? You're not going to want to set
up a persistent always on connection
between your client and your remote
server here when it's kind of always
open, right? Literally always open
because it would be open anytime um
you're using your computer and it
introduces a bunch of additional
overhead. You need a websocket manager.
You need to be able to maintain that.
It's overkill kill for this system. And
from a product requirement perspective,
like do you care if you see the updates
within seconds or within milliseconds?
um or is it okay if you see them within
tens, 20s, seconds, a minute, whatever.
And of course on the client app, we can
always put a refresh button. So if you
really need that file there, you can
click that refresh button and it'll kick
off a poll if that poll hadn't happened
yet. So in my opinion, that's overkill.
Long pulling doesn't make as much sense
either. Long pulling is when you're
going to make a request and then you're
going to keep that request open for
about a minute or so for the server to
be able to respond. This is when you're
expecting a response or several
responses but still within a relatively
quick window there that that minute or
so window and that's not the pattern
that we have here. We don't know when
changes are going to be made and are
going to need to notify us. So polling
with some adaptive frequencies here I
think is fully appropriate. But then the
next thing is if a change gets made to a
file, let's say some change got got got
made to a file um in our remote server
here, then we don't want to have to
download that entire file and update it
in our local folder, especially if that
was a big file, that 50 gigabyte file.
So this is where chunking comes in
again, right? So now what we're going to
do is something that I think Dropbox
refers to as delta sync. And so what
this means is that we're only going to
get the chunks that have changed. So we
probably want to up add, you know, like
an updated at here too. And what we do
is when we pull for changes, we'll just
specifically look for the the chunks
that have changed in any given file. So
maybe there's a new file that was added,
in which case we have no choice. We'll
download the entire file, of course,
we'll update our local DB and we'll
stick that file in our local folder. But
in the case where we just made some
changes to a single file, which is
fairly common, then all we need to do is
download the chunks that have been
updated since kind of our last sync, our
last poll. And so we can just download
those chunks. Our client app will do the
stitching for us to make sure that our
our our local file in our local folder
here now um has that updated chunk. And
this will help with speed a bunch
because it'll make sure that we're only
downloading that latest chunk. So I'm
going to say here that we're going to do
some adaptive polling. And then we're
also going to do delta sync do only only
fetch change chunks. So those are kind
of the two things that that we can do
there.
Um okay when we talk about consistency
this is where it introduces maybe some
more interesting questions. So I keep
referring to polling but I'm
intentionally been a little vague up
until this point as to what that
actually means. And so let's talk about
what our options are there. The first
and the most obvious is that we can pull
the database directly. We can just say
that for any, you know, we'll probably
need some reference to a folder or
users. So, actually that's probably good
to have here. This is folder ID. This is
the folder that's synced, right? So, I
can say um for folder ID 123, get me any
files for which a chunk has changed or
been added since our last sync. This
would be pulling the the database
directly, right? Pretty easy, pretty
straightforward, great option. Option
two, and this is closer to what um
Dropbox actually does for what it's
worth, is that we can have an event bus
with a cursor. And so this is a fairly
common pattern, and I'll sketch it out
without
um without maybe putting, you know, all
the gritty details in here. Um but this
is going to be an event stream, an event
bus. So this could be something like
Kafka, right? Kafka is always a fine
choice here. Um,
and so what's going to happen is that
any change that occurs to any of these
given files, we're going to put that
change event on this bus. And then we'll
need to have some kind of additional
data structure, which we probably should
have had or some additional state here,
which we maybe should have had anyway.
Um, but we're going to have some folder.
And that folder is going to have a
cursor. And this is the sync cursor. Let
me call it the sync cursor.
And so as events or changes are coming
in, we're going to put those changes on
our event bus. And so now the very first
time you set up a local folder, then
you're not going to have any cursor
here. So we're going to replay all of
these events in order to construct the
correct local state. Basically, here are
all the things that have changed in the
lifetime of this folder. Go construct
that in your local folder, in your local
DB. Create these files. All good, right?
We'll request that from the sync
service. And then we'll update the
cursor to say this is where you were in
that update process. The last event that
you read was this particular cursor. And
so the next time that we want to sync
when we do our next periodic polling,
instead of going to the database and
asking for changes, we're going to come
down here to our event bus, which is a
linear list of the events. Kind of think
of it like a a linked list. And we're
going to navigate to the cursor,
basically the last event that we read,
and we're going to take all of the new
events that have come in. We're going to
apply those changes to our local DB.
So, this is definitely more complicated.
You would talk about some additional
things here like partitioning
uh on either user ID or folder ID. This
thing's going to grow. Um, at some point
you want to consolidate changes here.
So, like you don't want to have to read
every single event. Maybe you have a
snapshot point where you can just
restore from something directly in file
metadata and then read events from
there. Um, the reason that I'm I'm being
a little bit intentionally vague here
and not going into too much detail is
because while this is what um, Dropbox
does for this design and given our
functional requirements and our
nonfunctional requirements, I think this
is overkill. And the reason being that
an event bus with cursor is great for
when you need an audit trail and you
need some version control. It allows you
to do data recovery. You can roll back
past events to go to a previous point,
right? Roll forward. Um, and so it's
it's great for all of those reasons. We
didn't have that in our functional
requirements. So we didn't explicitly
say that we want to have an audit trail,
that we want to have version control.
Um, and and for that reason, I call this
overkill. Now, in your design of Dropbox
in an interview, maybe that is something
that's important. So I wanted to bring
this up because it might be necessary,
but it adds a ton of complexity. Um,
that's kind of not necessary relative to
just pulling the database and looking
for changes. Now, of course, if we made
a change to this database, we would have
overwritten the chunk. Then we don't
know the old chunk. So, we can't handle
versioning. We can't roll back. Whereas
with the event bus, we could do
something like that. Um, so that's the
change there. I'm going to delete it
because it's it's not making it into my
design. I'm going to opt for simplicity
here. But that's the way that we could
handle that. So for sync to be
consistent, it's either pulling the DB
or
um or it's an event bus with cursor. And
there's probably other options there, of
course, too, but those are the the two
main ones that I see pop up in
interviews most often. And then the very
last thing that's worth discussing is
that despite all of our best efforts,
it's possible that our local folder and
our remote uh fall into an inconsistent
state. It can happen. There's a lot of
moving pieces here. um you know anything
could break at any point whether it's a
developer bug um or you know issues that
we had in in with connections etc. So,
what's oftentimes applied in these
situations is something that's called
recon I'm not going to be able to spell
this reconiliation
anyway um kind of adding reconciliation
here and so what this is is that
periodically maybe it's daily maybe it's
weekly whatever it needs to be your
client app is going to go fetch all of
the information in remote for this
folder and it's going to compare it to
its local DB and compare the
fingerprints to the files that it has in
that local folder and make sure that
everything is totally consistent and if
there are any issues then it's going to
handle reconciliation. It's going to fix
those issues. And so while our more real
time quote unquote real time syncing of
these two should get the job done in
case there are any issues no problem.
We'll periodically do reconciliation
whether it's every day um or every week.
Quickly before we recap, I just want to
call one thing out that I that I
mentioned and failed to come back to.
When we did these APIs, I told you these
APIs were wrong. You'll see now why that
API was wrong, right? We don't post the
file with the file body um or with the
file itself in the file metadata because
we ended up writing directly to S3. So,
let me grab oops kind of what's a more
correct one here and I'll update it. Um
this is a good thing to do in the
interview, but not necessary
necessarily. You want to talk through
it. So this is now where we have those
first we post with the file metadata and
we get back a pre-signed URL. Then we
upload the file chunks to the presign
URL and then we update our file metadata
with the chunk status as we're going. So
I just updated those so that uh when you
guys have this resource you have
something that's accurate. Okay,
fantastic. So we went through all five
of these steps. We did our requirements
core entities API highle design and deep
dives. I think we ended up landing on on
a pretty good system here that balances
simplicity with meeting all of our
requirements. Um, so I'm going to
continue to try to do I've been doing
one of these every 3 weeks. That's the
pace that I'm going to try to keep up.
Um, I'm going to put a link in the
description with a couple of things. Of
course, there's going to be the link to
the written version of this. There's
also going to be a link to um a place on
the website where you can vote for the
question that you want me to do next.
So, head over there, vote. If you're
enjoying these and you want to see a
different question, you can suggest a
question or vote on a question directly.
Um, and then I've really been enjoying
your guys' comments. So, there have been
some really encouraging comments that
are motivating me to continue to keep
doing these. I really appreciate reading
those. There have also been some people
who have pointed out um, you know,
whether it's great questions or things
that were inaccurate. Same two. Please
do that. Do that here. Um, I'm largely
doing these in like oneish take. It
takes a couple takes, but you know, I I
just run through it and talk about the
things that um you know, I believe to be
true and and have experience from doing
these interviews, but these aren't
particularly well rehearsed. So, I'm
sure there's times where I misspoke,
there's inaccuracies. Call those out in
the comments. Let's talk about them. Um
I want to hear from you guys and answer
as many questions as I can. So, as
always, thanks again for watching. We'll
have another one in in three weeks or
so. And best of luck with the upcoming
interviews.